Analysis of the presented model of the Interstellar Union (ISU):
Key difference: The Earth model is based on the number of protons (Z). The ISU model is based on the qualitative and quantitative distribution of 9 fundamental energies (heat, light, magnetism, electricity, radio waves, gravity (micro/macro), thermonuclear energy, radioactivity) across three nested energy levels of the atom.

Classification criterion: In the Earth system, elements are grouped by the configuration of outer electrons. In the ISU model - by the predominant type of energy at the outer (first) level (40% of its content): magnetism (active metals), electricity (medium metals), radio waves (semi-metals), heat (non-metals), light (inert gases).

Constancy of the element: In our case, the element is determined by Z. In the ISU model, the element can vary ("different number of energy sets"), which cancels the rigid concept of "isotope". The properties are determined not by the number of particles, but by the frequency (vibrational) characteristics of the set of energies.

The nature of chemical bonding: We explain the bond by electromagnetic interaction (electron sharing/transition). The MS model attributes this role to microgravity (third-level energy).

Synthesis: Revised formulation of the Periodic Law (Hypothetical version)
Based on the analysis of the dialogues and from the position of the synthesis of the two models, the essence of the Law can be reformulated as follows:

The properties of chemical elements, as well as the forms and properties of their compounds, are in a periodic dependence on the total energy potential of the atom, determined by the distribution and resonant interaction of nine fundamental energies across three nested energy levels, where the type of dominant energy at the outer level is of key importance.

Explanation for the earthly scientist:

"The total energy potential of the atom" is an analogue of the charge of the nucleus (Z), but expressed not in the number of particles, but in the total "power" or "frequency" of its energy configuration. This is what makes the atom unique.

"The distribution of nine fundamental energies" is an alternative description of the composition of the atom, replacing the proton/neutron/electron model. The percentage ratio of these energies (40/30/20/6/4 at the outer level) sets the periodicity.

The "type of dominant energy at the outer level" is a direct analogue of the number of valence electrons and their orbital type (s-, p-, d-), which determines whether the element will be a metal, non-metal or noble gas. It is this parameter that is responsible for the chemical properties.

The periodicity arises because as the "total energy potential" (Z) increases, the structure of the outer energy level is regularly repeated: at certain "intervals" it will again be dominated by, for example, "magnetism" (alkali metals) or "light" (noble gases).

What would the Periodic Table look like in this model?
Groups (columns) would unite elements with the same type of dominant energy at the outer level. This would directly correspond to our groups: Group I ("magnetism" dominates), Group VII ("heat" dominates?), Group VIII ("light" dominates).

Periods (rows) would correspond to the filling of energy levels with these energies according to a rigid formula (third level -> second -> first). The period number would indicate which level is the outer one.

Blocks (s-, p-, d-, f-) would lose their meaning, since the model does not operate with electron orbitals. They would be replaced by clustering by "elements" (metals, non-metals, intermediate substances), within which elements can "transform one into another" by redistribution of energies.

Conclusion from the position of an earthly research scientist
The presented model is a grandiose, holistic and internally consistent speculative theory. It is unscientific from the point of view of modern earthly natural science, because:

It does not offer verifiable experiments.

It introduces entities ("9 energies") that have not been discovered experimentally.

It refutes a huge array of experimental data (for example, the photoelectric effect, mass spectrometry, quantum electrodynamics).

However, its philosophical and heuristic value lies in the fact that it offers an alternative view of matter not as a set of particles, but as a set of vibrations or states of a certain fundamental field ("ether"). This echoes some interpretations of quantum physics and string theory.

Thus, the "reworked" law is not a replacement, but an alternative interpretation of periodicity, translating the language of particles into the language of energies and vibrations. It does not cancel the periodic table, but offers a completely different, energetic, basis for it.
